The Progenitors are a highly advanced race of spacefaring humanoid giants. Many 
spend their entire lives on ships, which are the size of a small island 
continent, in search of their fabled Paradise.

Thousands of years ago, the Progenitor Ship "Ur" lands on the planet in the 
middle of the Lankari ocean to refuel using the Aether native to the planet.
The Progenitor crew comes into contact with the indigenous Human tribes that 
live in the Lankari Archipelago. Bearing supernatural abilities, the Progenitors
are treated by the native Humans as gods forming a cargo cult around them. The 
Progenitors take advantage of their reverence and use the Humans to do their 
gather resources and do research.

After many years, the Captain grows ill and weak leading to a power vaccum over 
which of the crew is to take the Captain's position. Two likely canditates are 
the First Mate Zekar and the Medical Officer Garvani. On his deathbed, the 
Captain reveals to the crew that refueling will take around 3000 years so the
crew is trapped on the planet for the remainder of their lives. The Captain dies
leaving the crew in a dilemma.

Zekar, having gotten used to his status of being treated as a God, claims that 
the crew should remain on the planet and forget about retuning to the hardships 
of spacefaring life. Garvani, however, objects claiming that staying on the 
planet would be insubordinate to the hope of the Progenitor fleet to find the
fabled Paradise and that they should send out a rescue beacon to return to their
old lives. After much deliberation and argument, Zekar decides that Garvani and
her followers can't be convinced and destroys the ship's life support system
which makes the ship's biosphere inhospitable to both Progenitor and Human
alike. Only Zekar, Garvani and their respective followers survive. 

Zekar heads to the Northern continent with his Human followers hoping to create 
a new life for himself. Zekar discourages his followers from delving into 
technology fearing that they may one day achieve space travel and come into
contact with the Progenitor fleet. Instead Zekar encourages the use of Magic,
which allows the humans to manipulate the elements from the control of Aether
they harness through their breath. Zekar creates the foundations for an empire
centered around him as their mythical God King.

Garvani heads South with her Human followers hoping to build a signal beacon to 
contact the Progenitor fleet, rescue her from this planet and bring Zekar to
justice. Garvani encourages her followers towards scientific research rather 
than becoming one with nature through Magic. She encourages her followers to 
become independent from the comforts of the planet in preparation for travel 
into space.

Three thousand years later, the two civilizations has grown much more advanced
and are competing for control over the planet's resources. The Zekarian Empire
led by the God King Zekar and his Apostles seeks to spread the practice of Magic
to become one with the planet while opposing the use of technology covers the 
entireity of the Northern Continent. The Garvani Union led by Chairman Garvani 
and her Board of Directors seeks to become independent of faith and belief 
through the use of science and technology covers the entireity of the Southern
Continent.

The Progenitor Ship "Ur", having integrated with the planet's biosphere has 
become an island in the middle of the Lankari Archipelago. Having recharged its 
fuel cells, it is now capable of flying off into space. Zekar wants to use the
Aether in the ship's fuel cells to destroy it once and for all. Garvani wants
to capture the ship in order to escape from the planet and return to the
Progenitor homeworld. Both civilizations have clashed in the past and now 
prepare for a decisive battle at Ur to end the stalemate between them.